Git - It is version control System. It is developed to co-ordinate the work among the developers.

Git Bash - Git bash is primarily a tool for interacting to local repository on your machine.

Working Directory ---> Staging Area(preview of the code) ---> Repository

Branch - repository diverges from main working directory. Or sub part of the main repository.


Starting the git :-

1: create a project folder and open bash shell here.
2: git init - to start the project into git; That creates a .git hidden file into our project.
3: create some file or copy your initialize project in this folder.
4: git status : If your run "git status" command here that will return that some files are untracked.
5: git add . (git add "file name"): this command will push all the file into staging area.
6: git commit -m "first commit" : That will commit all the changes in got repository.

Note : Let suppose if your changes something in a file. And run git status command, than you will see that a "file is modified" like comment. But after you realised that that change was wrong. In that case your can run
"git checkout 'file name' " command to erase all the changes in that file.


Command :-

for setting username - git config --global user.name "your name"
for setting email - git config --global user.email "your email"
for listing the global changes - git config --list

git clone: Creates a local copy of a remote repository.
git push: Sends local commits to the remote repository.
git pull: Fetches changes from the remote and merges them into the local branch.
git fetch: Downloads new data from a remote repository without integrating it into the local working copy.
git Rm: for removing file.
git Diff: shows changes between commit, working tree etc.
git ignore: use for intentionally untrack the line.


U - Untracked
A - added to stagged area
C - Committed
M - Modified committed file


create a new repository on the command line
echo "# Real-time-collaboration" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/rohansaini755/Real-time-collaboration.git
git push -u origin main


push an existing repository from the command line
git remote add origin https://github.com/rohansaini755/Real-time-colloboration.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main


git config --global -e              :- for editing the user information
git log --oneline                   :- log of previous committed

git reset --hard HEAD~1             :- Remove all the last 1 commit changes from the current head
          --soft
          --mixed



Branching : 

git branch branch_name    :- to initialize the branch of git main
git switch branch_name    :- switch current branch to another
git push -u origin [branch-name] : to push the branch code to the GitHub repository in branch.
git merge branch_name     :- to merge any branch code (first you have to switch to main branch)
git log --graph           :- the complete steps log
git log --oneline         :- complete log in simplify form
git log                   :- complete log in details
git branch -d branch_name :- to delete any branch
git stash                 :- to stash the changes
git stash apply           :- to apply the changes into branch from stash area
git stash clear           :- to clear the changes from the stash area



Branch Merging Techniques

Fast Forward Merge
Fast-forward merge occurs when the target branch has not diverged from the source branch.
In this case, Git simply moves the target branch pointer to the latest commit in the source branch. 
This strategy is simple and keeps the commit history linear.

Three-Way Merge
A three-way merge involves comparing three commits: the two branch tips and their common ancestor.
Git uses this information to create a new merge commit that restore the differences.

Recursive Merge:
Recursive merge is Git’s default strategy for non-trivial merges. It handles cases where branches have diverged 
by creating a new merge commit. This commit records the combined changes from both branches,
preserving the history of both lines of development.

Squash and Merge
Squash and merge squashes all the commits from a feature branch into a single commit before merging into the target branch. 
This strategy simplifies the commit history, making it easier to follow.

6. Rebase and Merge
Rebase and merge rewrites the commit history of the feature branch, placing it on top of the main branch before merging. 
This results in a linear commit history without merge commits

Use Case: Useful when dealing with more complex merges involving multiple branches and several changes.